doc/development.md, before:

Development Guide
=================

### Note about `scripts` directory

The `scripts` directory directly contains a "catch-all" command called `ubik`,
which is used to dispatch various subcommands in this project. This script
comes from the [Bashy-lib](https://github.com/danfuzz-bashy-lib) project, see
which for helpful advice about integrating it into your shell environment.

### Building

```sh
$ ubik dev build
...
Build complete!
$
```

By default, `dev build` deposits both a runnable build and a distribution
tarball in the directory `out` directly under the top-level source directory.
The script takes other options; `dev --help` for details.

`ubik dev clean` does what you (presumably) expect.

### Linting Etc.

```sh
$ ubik lint

No linter errors! Yay!
$
```

There are also two tools which adjust source files to be in a standardized form:

* `ubik node-project fix-package-json` -- Derives intra-project dependencies
  from the actual source files, and updates each module's `package.json` to
  match. It actually entirely rewrites the file with project-standard
  boilerplate and formatting.
* `ubik node-project sort-imports` -- Sorts and arranges `import` lines into a
  project-standard form.

### Testing

Unit test files live in directories named `tests` directly under each local
package. They use Jest for both test definitons (`describe(...)`, `test(...)`)
and assertions (`expect(...)...`).

```sh
$ ubik run-tests
...
No errors! Yay!
```

The `run-tests` script takes other options; `run-tests --help` for details.
TLDR: `run-tests --do=build` to do a build first, for convenience.

### Running

#### Run out of the built `out` directory

This will run the system using the example configuration defined in
`etc/config`, which includes a self-signed certificate for `localhost`, which
_might_ satisfy your local web browser.

```sh
$ ubik dev run
...
```

The `run` target of `dev` lets you pass arbitrary arguments to the server, by
using the `--run-args[]` option. TLDR very useful:

* `dev --run-args[]='--inspect' run` or `dev --run-args[]=--inspect=<arg> run`
  &mdash; Pass an `inspect` option to Node (to start the inspector/debugger
  immediately).

You can also do a build first:

```sh
$ ubik dev build run
...
```

Recognized signals:
* `SIGHUP` -- Does an in-process system reload. (The system shuts down and then
  re-runs from near-scratch.)
* `SIGUSR1` -- Starts the Node inspector/debugger, listening on the usual port.
  (This is a standard signal recognized by Node. Just noting it here as a
  reminder or perhaps a TIL.)
* `SIGUSR2` -- Produces a heap snapshot file. Look in the log for the file name.
  (Writes to the current directory if it is writable, and falls back to the
  value of environment variables `$HOME` or `$TMPDIR`, finally trying `/tmp` as
  a last-ditch effort. The file can be inspected using the "Memory" panel
  available in the Chrome developer tools. **Note:** Node documentation claims
  that a process needs _additional_ memory of about the same size as the heap
  being dumped; if the memory is not available you might find that your OS has
  killed the process before it completes the snapshot.
* `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM` -- Shuts down as cleanly as possible. (Note: `SIGINT`
  is usually what gets sent when you type `ctrl-C` in a console.)

### Releasing

Use the script `update-version` will change the main version number, and
prepare the `CHANGELOG` file for release.

```sh
$ ubik update-version 123.45.6
```

- - - - - - - - - -
```
Copyright 2022-2024 the Lactoserv Authors (Dan Bornstein et alia).
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
```

Commit message:

Rename `--run-args[]` option to `--run[]`, and add smarts.

doc/development.md, after:

Development Guide
=================

### Note about `scripts` directory

The `scripts` directory directly contains a "catch-all" command called `ubik`,
which is used to dispatch various subcommands in this project. This script
comes from the [Bashy-lib](https://github.com/danfuzz-bashy-lib) project, see
which for helpful advice about integrating it into your shell environment.

### Building

```sh
$ ubik dev build
...
Build complete!
$
```

By default, `dev build` deposits both a runnable build and a distribution
tarball in the directory `out` directly under the top-level source directory.
The script takes other options; `dev --help` for details.

`ubik dev clean` does what you (presumably) expect.

### Linting Etc.

```sh
$ ubik lint

No linter errors! Yay!
$
```

There are also two tools which adjust source files to be in a standardized form:

* `ubik node-project fix-package-json` -- Derives intra-project dependencies
  from the actual source files, and updates each module's `package.json` to
  match. It actually entirely rewrites the file with project-standard
  boilerplate and formatting.
* `ubik node-project sort-imports` -- Sorts and arranges `import` lines into a
  project-standard form.

### Testing

Unit test files live in directories named `tests` directly under each local
package. They use Jest for both test definitons (`describe(...)`, `test(...)`)
and assertions (`expect(...)...`).

```sh
$ ubik run-tests
...
No errors! Yay!
```

The `run-tests` script takes other options; `run-tests --help` for details.
TLDR: `run-tests --do=build` to do a build first, for convenience.

### Running

#### Run out of the built `out` directory

This will run the system using the example configuration defined in
`etc/config`, which includes a self-signed certificate for `localhost`, which
_might_ satisfy your local web browser.

```sh
$ ubik dev run
...
```

The `run` target of `dev` lets you pass arbitrary arguments to the server, by
using the `--run[]` option, and it also makes the default `dev` target be `run`.
TLDR very useful:

* `dev --run[]='--inspect'` or `dev --run[]='--inspect=<arg>'`
  &mdash; Pass an `inspect` option to Node (to start the inspector/debugger
  immediately).

You can also do a build first:

```sh
$ ubik dev build run
...
```

Recognized signals:
* `SIGHUP` -- Does an in-process system reload. (The system shuts down and then
  re-runs from near-scratch.)
* `SIGUSR1` -- Starts the Node inspector/debugger, listening on the usual port.
  (This is a standard signal recognized by Node. Just noting it here as a
  reminder or perhaps a TIL.)
* `SIGUSR2` -- Produces a heap snapshot file. Look in the log for the file name.
  (Writes to the current directory if it is writable, and falls back to the
  value of environment variables `$HOME` or `$TMPDIR`, finally trying `/tmp` as
  a last-ditch effort. The file can be inspected using the "Memory" panel
  available in the Chrome developer tools. **Note:** Node documentation claims
  that a process needs _additional_ memory of about the same size as the heap
  being dumped; if the memory is not available you might find that your OS has
  killed the process before it completes the snapshot.
* `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM` -- Shuts down as cleanly as possible. (Note: `SIGINT`
  is usually what gets sent when you type `ctrl-C` in a console.)

### Releasing

Use the script `update-version` will change the main version number, and
prepare the `CHANGELOG` file for release.

```sh
$ ubik update-version 123.45.6
```

- - - - - - - - - -
```
Copyright 2022-2024 the Lactoserv Authors (Dan Bornstein et alia).
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
```
